---
layout: article
blogName: SunJK' Blog 
category: Learning Note
category_en: notes
title: ICMP part 1
tags: icmp 
---
reference by [RFC 792](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc792)

* ICMP, uses the basic support of IP as if it were a higher level protocol, however, ICMP is actually an integral part of IP, and must be implemented by every IP module.

* ICMP messages are sent in several situations:  for example,  when a
   datagram cannot reach its destination, when the gateway does not have
   the buffering capacity to forward a datagram, and when the gateway
   can direct the host to send traffic on a shorter route.
   
* The Internet Protocol is not designed to be absolutely reliable. <font color="red"> The
   purpose of these control messages is to provide feedback about
   problems in the communication environment, not to make IP reliable.
   There are still no guarantees that a datagram will be delivered or a
   control message will be returned.  Some datagrams may still be
   undelivered without any report of their loss. </font> The higher level
   protocols that use IP must implement their own reliability procedures
   if reliable communication is required.
   
* The ICMP messages typically report errors in the processing of
   datagrams. <font color="red"> To avoid the infinite regress of messages about messages etc., 
   no ICMP messages are sent about  ICMP messages. </font>  Also ICMP
   messages are only sent about errors in handling fragment zero of
   fragemented datagrams.  (Fragment zero has the fragment offeset equal
   zero).
   
* IP implementations are required to support this protocol. ICMP is considered an integral part of
  IP,although it is architecturally layered upon IP. ICMP provides error reporting, flow control and 
  first-hop gateway redirection.
  
### icmp message format

``MAC header | IP header | ICMP header | Data :::``
<pre>
<table border="1">
<tr>
<th>00</th><th>01</th><th>02</th><th>03</th><th>04</th><th>05</th><th>06</th><th>07</th>
<th>08</th><th>09</th><th>10</th><th>11</th><th>12</th><th>13</th><th>14</th><th>15</th>
<th>16</th><th>17</th><th>18</th><th>19</th><th>20</th><th>21</th><th>22</th><th>23</th>
<th>24</th><th>25</th><th>26</th><th>27</th><th>28</th><th>29</th><th>30</th><th>31</th></tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8">Type</td>
<td colspan="8">Code</td>
<td colspan="16" >ICMP header checksum</td></tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="32">Rest of Header</td></tr>
</table>
</pre>

### list ping related
whole table is [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol)

Type |	Code |	Status	Description
--- | --- | ---
0  |	0	|	Echo reply (used to ping)
8  | 0	 |	Echo request (used to ping)

### echo request & echo reply 
reference by [here](http://www.networksorcery.com/enp/protocol/icmp/msg8.htm)
<h4>identifier,sequence number </h4>
* The data received in the echo request message must be returned in the echo reply message.
* The identifier and sequence number may be used by the echo sender to aid in matching the replies with the echo requests. For example, the identifier might be used like a port in TCP or UDP to identify a session, and the sequence number might be incremented on each echo request sent. The echoing node returns these same values in the echo reply.
* Code 0 may be received from a gateway or a host.
<h4>Host Implementation:</h4>
* Every host must implement an ICMP Echo server function that receives Echo Requests and sends corresponding Echo Replies.
* A host should also implement an application-layer interface for sending an Echo Request and receiving an Echo Reply, for diagnostic purposes.
* <font color="red">An ICMP Echo Request destined to an IP broadcast or IP multicast address may be silently discarded.</font>

<pre>
<table  border="1">
<tr>
<th>00</th><th>01</th><th>02</th><th>03</th><th>04</th><th>05</th><th>06</th><th>07</th>
<th>08</th><th>09</th><th>10</th><th>11</th><th>12</th><th>13</th><th>14</th><th>15</th>
<th>16</th><th>17</th><th>18</th><th>19</th><th>20</th><th>21</th><th>22</th><th>23</th>
<th>24</th><th>25</th><th>26</th><th>27</th><th>28</th><th>29</th><th>30</th><th>31</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8">Type</td>
<td colspan="8">Code</td>
<td colspan="16" >ICMP header checksum</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="16">Identifier</td>
<td colspan="16" >Sequence number</td>
</tr>
<tr><td colspan="32">Data :::</td></tr>
</table>
</pre>

* Identifier. 16 bits.
This field is used to help match echo requests to the associated reply. It may be cleared to zero.
* Sequence number. 16 bits.
This field is used to help match echo requests to the associated reply. It may be cleared to zero.


related links: 

_<http://www.networksorcery.com/enp/protocol/icmp.htm>_<br>
_<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol>_



    

