---
layout: article
blogName: SunJK' Blog 
category: Learning Note
category_en: notes
title: ICMP protocol 
tags: icmp 
---
reference by [RFC 792](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc792)

* ICMP, uses the basic support of IP as if it were a higher level protocol, however, ICMP is actually an integral part of IP, and must be implemented by every IP module.
* ICMP messages are sent in several situations:  for example,  when a
   datagram cannot reach its destination, when the gateway does not have
   the buffering capacity to forward a datagram, and when the gateway
   can direct the host to send traffic on a shorter route.
* The Internet Protocol is not designed to be absolutely reliable. <font color="red"> The
   purpose of these control messages is to provide feedback about
   problems in the communication environment, not to make IP reliable.
   There are still no guarantees that a datagram will be delivered or a
   control message will be returned.  Some datagrams may still be
   undelivered without any report of their loss. </font> The higher level
   protocols that use IP must implement their own reliability procedures
   if reliable communication is required.
* The ICMP messages typically report errors in the processing of
   datagrams. <font color="red"> To avoid the infinite regress of messages about messages etc., 
   no ICMP messages are sent about  ICMP messages. </font>  Also ICMP
   messages are only sent about errors in handling fragment zero of
   fragemented datagrams.  (Fragment zero has the fragment offeset equal
   zero).
* IP implementations are required to support this protocol. ICMP is considered an integral part of
  IP,although it is architecturally layered upon IP. ICMP provides error reporting, flow control and 
  first-hop gateway redirection.
  
icmp message format

``MAC header | IP header | ICMP header | Data :::``
<pre>
<table border="1">
<tr>
<th>00</th><th>01</th><th>02</th><th>03</th><th>04</th><th>05</th><th>06</th><th>07</th>
<th>08</th><th>09</th><th>10</th><th>11</th><th>12</th><th>13</th><th>14</th><th>15</th>
<th>16</th><th>17</th><th>18</th><th>19</th><th>20</th><th>21</th><th>22</th><th>23</th>
<th>24</th><th>25</th><th>26</th><th>27</th><th>28</th><th>29</th><th>30</th><th>31</th></tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="8" class="pkthdr"><a>Type</a></td>
<td colspan="8" class="pkthdr"><a>Code</a></td>
<td colspan="16" class="pkthdr"><a>ICMP header checksum</a></td></tr>
<tr>
<td colspan="32" class="pktvarlen"><a>Data</a> :::</td></tr>
</table>
</pre>

related links: 

_<http://www.networksorcery.com/enp/protocol/icmp.htm>_
_<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Control_Message_Protocol>_



    

